launch ec2
install jenkins using jenkins i.o
yum install git
y
yum install docker
 sudo usermod -aG docker jenkins
 sudo systemctl enable docker
 systemctl restart docker
 systemctl status docker
 systemctl restart jenkins
 hit pubip of jenkin server:8080 ===jenkin ui will open
 configure it
 
Now to create pioeline job  --to build docker image to push that image to our docker registry -using developers code from git hub:
we neet to set up gobal credentilas for git hub and docker.
Go to manage jenkin -pluggins-available pluggin-type docker---seclect first 3 puggins i.e docker.docker commas,docker pupeline and install it.
Go to -jenkin ui-manage jenkin-credentials-system-global credentills--add credentials--
First do for git hub i.e
username-bhavya630@gmail.com  passsword(type)--id (git-credentials)-create
 second do it for your docker registry
 add credentials-username-bhavyashettyrai-password(type)-id-docker-credentials-create.
 CREATE A JOB:
 dashboard-new-choose pipeliine-ok.
 Next section--under pipeline type script or copy from my github-rps-ant repo-user file pipelinescript-then build it.
If success--then check youe ece-type docker images...
go to youe docker registry---pushed images you can see there....

Till here master set-up...
Now launch one more ec2----use ubuntu--launch it--as a jenkin slave to make master slave configeration.
connect ubuntu and run following command....
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install openjdk-11-jdk

Lets do connection between master jenkin and slave jenkin :
 Dashboard-manage jenkins-node and cloud -add new node -name (jenkins-slave) -  permanent - create
remote root ( /home/ubuntu/jenkins) - label ( jenkins-slave) - launch method (ssh) -- 
host (pvt ip of slave ) - credentials ---add--jenkins --domain(global credentials )--kind (ssh username with private key) id (jenkins-slave)--username(ubuntu)
lick on add--copy paste your pem key---add---host key verification-non---availability (keep this as much as ossibe) ---save


Next install docker in your ubuntu using link  https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/ubuntu/

Next create pipeline job---as above ---copy pasre pipelinescript from my ant-aps repo 
do the changes in agent any lines 
delet lines and fill folowing 
thenk build it



